20230807 Edge Release Roundup (#1652)
linkerd/website: linkerd.io/content/blog/2023/0807-edge-release-roundup.md

---
author: 'alejandro'
date: 2023-08-07T00:00:00Z
title: |-

>   Linkerd Edge Release Roundup: 7 August 2023

Reviewer: Minor: Maybe we just call this August 2023 since the exact date isn't really that important?

Author: It's there mostly in case we have a five-week month with two roundups in the future, but I think that'll be rare enough that we could do e.g. "August 2023 redux!" or "take 2!" or whatever.

[Harsh Soni]:https://github.com/harsh020
[Jean-Charles Legras]:https://github.com/jclegras
[Miguel Elias dos Santos]:https://github.com/migueleliasweb

## Gateway API

From the feature perspective, our main focus over the last several edge
releases has been improving our Gateway API support, bringing us closer to
feature parity between [HTTPRoute]s and [ServiceProfile]s:

- We added support for the Gateway API's `gateway.networking.k8s.io` APIGroup
  to Linkerd in edge-23.7.1 on July 7th. This is a major step toward
  conformance with the Gateway API's [Mesh profile]. (We're not turning off
  support for `policy.linkerd.io` though, that's still quite a ways away.)

- We added support for HTTPRoutes defined in the namespace from which a route
  is called in edge-23.7.3 on July 28th. The Gateway API calls these
  [_consumer routes_][consumer-routes] since the use case is, usually, doing
  things like overriding the timeout for a workload you're calling. You can
  learn more about this in the [Gateway API Mesh routing
  documentation][gamma-routing].

- We also made HTTPRoute `parentRefs` port numbers optional in edge-23.7.3,
  per the [HTTPRoute standard].

> - Finally, we started added support for [HTTPRoute filters]:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Finally, we started adding support for [HTTPRoute filters]:
```

Author: All three of these suggestions are great catches, and honestly just embarrassing that I didn't catch them first. 😂 🤦‍♂️

  `RequestHeaderModifier` and `RequestRedirect` are supported in edge-23.7.2,
  and `ResponseHeaderModifier` is supported in edge-23.7.3 (so edge-23.7.2
  added header modifications for _requests_, and edge-23.7.3 added header
  modifications for _responses_).

[HTTPRoute]:https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/api-types/httproute/
[HTTPRoute standard]:https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/references/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2.HTTPRoute
[ServiceProfile]:https://linkerd.io/2.13/features/service-profiles/
[GEP-1742]:https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-1742/
[consumer-routes]:https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/glossary/#consumer-route
[gamma-routing]:https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/gamma/#how-the-gateway-api-works-for-service-mesh
[Mesh profile]:https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-1686/
[HTTPRoute filters]:https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/references/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1.HTTPRouteFilter

## Fixes

> Of the many fixes in these five releases, two are particul stand out:

Reviewer: Particular

Reviewer 3: also, probably this was supposed to say "in particular" rather than "are particular"?
```suggestion
Of the many fixes in these five releases, two in particularl stand out:
```

Author: 🤦‍♂️

Author: Fixed! FTR I originally wrote something like "two are particularly relevant" and then massively botched the edit to "in particular". Sigh. Thanks for the catch!

1. In edge-23.7.3, we fixed a race condition where the Linkerd destination
   controller could panic in an environment with high churn of Endpoints or
   Servers. The most common effect here is seeing restarts of the destination
   controller Pods, but it could also result in traffic being sent to the
   wrong destination endpoints.

   This is covered in Linkerd issue [#11163].

2. In edge-23.8.1, we raised the default capacities of the HTTP request queues

>    (both inbound and outbound) back to 10000, after lowering them for Linkerd

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   (both inbound and outbound) back to 10,000, after lowering them for Linkerd
```

Author: Done, thanks!

   2.13. The effect here is that in situations where a single destination
   workload needed to accept a lot of concurrent traffic, the Linkerd proxies
   would decide that they had too much load, and start shedding it by dropping
   connections. This happened much more agressively in Linkerd 2.13 than in
   Linkerd 2.12; it's fixed in edge-23.8.1.

>    This is covered in Linkerd issue [#11055] and [PR 11198].
> 
> [#11163]:https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/issues/11163
> [#11055]:https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/issues/11055
> [PR 11198]:https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/pull/11198

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This is covered in Linkerd issue [#11055] and [PR #11198].

[#11163]:https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/issues/11163
[#11055]:https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/issues/11055
[PR #11198]:https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/pull/11198
```

Author: Done, thanks! 🙂
